[docs] Asset selection/exclusion for updates (#25806)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas-update/asset-selection.mdx

---
title: Asset selection and exclusion
description: Select which assets should be included in updates.
---

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { GithubIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';

> **info** Available for SDK 50 and above ([`expo-updates`](/versions/latest/sdk/updates/) >= 0.23.0).

> In SDK 49 and earlier, all assets resolved in the Metro bundler are included in every update, and are uploaded to the update server. The new experimental asset selection feature in SDK 50 allows the developer to specify that only certain assets should be included in updates. This has the potential to greatly reduce the number of assets that need to be uploaded to and downloaded from the updates server. This feature will work with the EAS update server, or any custom server that complies with the [`expo-updates` protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1.mdx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In SDK 49 and earlier, all assets resolved in the Metro bundler are included in every update, and are uploaded to the update server. The new experimental asset selection feature in SDK 50 allows the developer to specify that only certain assets should be included in updates. This can greatly reduce the number of assets that need to be uploaded to and downloaded from the updates server. This feature will work with the EAS update server or any custom server that complies with the [`expo-updates` protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1).
```

- We can be a bit concise here
- Also, in internal links, we can avoid mentioning file extensions

> In SDK 49 and earlier, all assets resolved in the Metro bundler are included in every update, and are uploaded to the update server. The new experimental asset selection feature in SDK 50 allows the developer to specify that only certain assets should be included in updates. This has the potential to greatly reduce the number of assets that need to be uploaded to and downloaded from the updates server. This feature will work with the EAS update server, or any custom server that complies with the [`expo-updates` protocol](/technical-specs/expo-updates-1.mdx).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In SDK 49 and earlier, all assets resolved in the Metro bundler are included in every update, and are uploaded to the update server. The new experimental asset selection feature in SDK 50 allows the developer to specify that only certain assets should be included in updates. This has the potential to greatly reduce the number of assets that need to be uploaded to and downloaded from the updates server.
```

This is independent of any server, correct? (just want to make sure my understanding of the feature is correct). Instead, this is a feature of the `expo-updates` client implementation of the protocol, but not necessarily all client implementations of the protocol.

Author: Correct, this feature is independent of the server. I put that last sentence in to make sure that developers using their own custom server would know that this would still work for them.

> To use this feature, a new property `extra.updates.assetPatternsToBeBundled` should be included in your Expo config. It should define one or more file matching patterns (regular expressions). For example, suppose your `app.json` file has the patterns defined this way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this feature, include the new property `extra.updates.assetPatternsToBeBundled` in your app config. It should define one or more file matching patterns (regular expressions). For example, suppose your **app.json** file has the patterns defined this way:
```

> To use this feature, a new property `extra.updates.assetPatternsToBeBundled` should be included in your Expo config. It should define one or more file matching patterns (regular expressions). For example, suppose your `app.json` file has the patterns defined this way:

Reviewer 2: let's add a note in here that this location will change in an upcoming release.

Author: I would prefer not to do that. If we do change the location, we will implement that change so that both the old and new locations will still work so that we don't break customers.

Reviewer 2: Hmm. Maybe we should decide on it's final resting place now then? Having it in extra probably isn't the right end-location (we just put it there to not need to modify the manifest schema, but that means that it's not validated). IMO it should be a top-level field since it affects all `npx expo export` commands but I guess it could also be elsewhere.

Reviewer 2: I guess it's fine to leave in extra for now, but IMO moving it later is a lot more work.

```json app.json
  "expo": {
    /* @hide ... your existing configuration */ /* @end */
    "extra": {
      "updates": {
        "assetPatternsToBeBundled": [
          "app/images/**/*.png"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
```

> In this case, all `.png` files in all subdirectories of `app/images` would be included in updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, all **.png** files in all subdirectories of **app/images** will be included in updates.
```

Filenames to be bold for consistency as [per our writing style guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#filenames-as-bold-text).

Assets that do not match any of the file patterns will still resolve in the Metro bundler, but will not be uploaded to the updates server. If making use of this feature, a developer needs to be certain that assets not included in updates are built into the native build of the app.

> If this new property is not in your Expo config, all assets resolved by the bundler will be included in updates (SDK 49 and earlier behavior).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this new property is not in your app config, all assets resolved by the bundler will be included in updates (as per SDK 49 and earlier behavior).
```

> We have created a [complete working demo](https://github.com/expo/UpdatesAPIDemo/blob/main/ASSETSELECTION.md) to allow developers to try out this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove this since we have the example in "More" section which is the next section so that we can avoid duplicating it. I'm also going suggest to rename the section from "More" to "Example".

> ## More

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```
